It this video we'll learn about the ACL map containers.
These are also associative containers.
They're collections of stored objects that allow for fast retrieval using a key the shell provides both
sets and maps we saw sets in the last video in this video.
Learn about maps.
The ACL has four types of map containers the map the unordered map the multimap and the unwatered multimap
will focus mainly on the map since it's the one that's most often used
in order to use the map you must include the map header file.
The map is like a dictionary where we have a key a word in the case of a dictionary and an associated
value which would be a definition map store their elements is key value pairs using this could Pair
objects the elements in the map are ordered by key and no duplicate keys are allowed.
We can directly access an element in the map using that key and all iterators are available.
Let's initialize a few map objects in the first example in this slide.
I declare one is a map of string integer key value pairs.
The key is the string and the value is the integer.
Then I initialize one with two key value pairs.
Larry 18 and Mo 25 in the second example I declare M2 as a map of string string key value pairs and
I'm initializing it to Bob butcher and baker George candlestick maker.
We'll use the map M and this slide for the next several examples.
The size method returns the number of elements that are in the map three in this case and max size will
tell us the maximum number of elements the map can contain.
Maps have no concept of front or back.
We'll see how we can add elements in the next slide.
So let's see how we can insert elements into a map we can use the insert method.
Remember maps consist of stood Pair objects where the first attribute is the key and the second attribute
is the value.
We can create P1 as a stood pair object of type string string and initialize it to James mechanic.
James is the key mechanic is the value.
We can then insert p one into the map M since M is a map of string string key value pairs.
Pretty easy.
We can also use the Stood make pair function to make it even easier for us to create those key value
pairs and we can insert them right into the map.
You can see in the last example how easy it is in this case we're adding the key value pair Roger Ranger
to the map.
So let's see another way we can insert elements into the map.
We can use the subscript operator and the dot at method to make the syntax pretty easy.
Suppose I want to insert the Frank teach your key value pair into the map m.
I can provide the key Frank in this case.
Inside the square brackets and assign the value to it.
This will insert the key value pair into the map m if it doesn't exist.
I can also modify existing map values in the same way.
And the syntax is dead simple.
If I wanted to change the value associated with the key Frank from teacher to instructor I can simply
use the subscript operator to do it the dot method does the same thing with different syntax of course
but it will throw an exception of the keys not in the map.
We can also erase elements in a map very easily and I'm done.
Erase and will erase the key value pair whose key is an A from the map.
We can also use the find method to get an iterator to A map's element as with the set.
For efficiency use the member method find not the find in the algorithm library in the second example.
I'm finding the key Bob in the map.
If I get back an iterator that's not pointing to the end of the map then I found the matching element
for I wanted to erase that element.
I can simply call em daddy race and pass in the iterator in the last example.
That's exactly what I'm doing.
I'm looking for the key George in the map and if it's in there I'm erasing it.
Finally we can use the count method the same way we did with sets.
It's an easy way to see if an element exists in the map.
If it does exist count will return one and if it doesn't count will return 0 as we've seen with all
the ACL containers.
The clear method removes all elements from the map and the empty method returns true if the map is empty
false otherwise.
Well that's a quick summary of the math class.
As I mentioned previously with all the SDL components there is much more to learn.
Please become familiar with the basics and then take your learning to the next level by studying the
SBL documentation.
Let's see some of the other map containers provided by the SDL the multimap class is also defined in
the map header file.
A multimap is a map that is ordered by key but does allow duplicate elements all iterators are available
to the multimap the unordered map is in the unordered map header file.
The unordered map is a map that's an ordered unordered maps do not allow Reversi iterators the last
type of map provided by the CEO is the unordered multimap the unordered multimap does not order elements
and it does allow duplicates.
Again no reverse iterators are allowed.
These maps are very powerful and pretty easy to use.
Let's head over to the idea.
We'll see some examples of using the map OK so I'm back in the IDM in the section 20 workspace in the
Map Project and what I'd like to do is go for a couple of map examples and one in particular that I
think is going to help you out a lot with the challenge that's coming up in the next video.
So let's start with Test 1 and there's only I think two Tests in this example.
This one's a little ball but we'll go through it slowly and then what we'll do is we'll talk about spy
function I wrote.
OK so we're here in test one.
And what I've got here is I've defined M to be a map of string integer key value pairs.
The string is the key.
And the integer is the value.
These guys can be just about anything.
I'm just going to use strings for the key because they're really easy to understand but those keys can
actually be our own custom objects as well and the value can be more complicated as well.
What we're going to do is in the next test what we're going to do is we're going to have the key be
a string and the value be a set of integers.
So again you can build these things up to get really complicated and very very very powerful.
So again M is a map of string integer key value pairs.
Here are my pairs right here.
These are not person objects.
I don't mean how a person class in this demo.
So there's a string Larry and there's the value in the integer three mo one Cur-Lee to.
What this means.
Who knows if you're just associating a string with an integer it could be how many times Larry went
to the movies today.
Could be just about anything.
Ok then I'm displaying em and you could see that right up here.
It's just plain Curly to Larry three mo one.
Now look at the ordering there.
It's ordering by key and the key in this case is the string.
So you're going to get curly first Larry second third.
It's using string order perfect.
Now let's add another 10 to that map.
Remember what we're doing is we're adding stewed pairs.
So in this case we're creating a good pair object right here and it's got to be of the same key value
pair type.
It's got to be string into Can't be anything else.
Or I can insert into this map here.
So in this case there's my key there's my value.
I'm creating a pair and I'm inserting that pair into em and then I'm displaying them.
So when you see that next display statement here you can see Anna is in there now with the 10 and Anna
is at the beginning of the list because it's being sorted by the key.
That is a handy little function called Make pair that makes this really easy so we can insert call make
pair it's going to create that stood pair for us and it's going to be the key is Joe the value is five.
So that'll automatically do kind of what we did up here without all the template parameter.
There Any that it will figure it all out.
So in this case it's going to make the pair Joe five and insert that into the map and then we're going
to display the map right here.
You can see that Joe five is now in the map.
Pretty easy right now here.
This is really easy here in this case.
I'm saying m and I'm providing the key.
This is the key inside the subscripts.
So what it's going to do is it's convincer.
Frank is in there right now it's going to insert the key value pair Frank 18 into the map using this
syntax which is really really easy to read and then displaying it and you can see right here that there
is Frank 18.
Now what's really cool is if I wanted to change the value associated with the key Frank right now it's
18.
Suppose I wanted to add 10 to it.
All I have to say is give me the value for that key and the math.
That's what I'm doing here.
And add tend to it display again.
So now you could see that Frank is 28 right here right.
So I've added 10 to the 18.
Pretty cool.
Let me clear this and that scroll up just a little bit.
A couple of more examples.
Let's do this one right here.
All I want to do here is erase Frank from the map I'm just providing the key right here where this is
all key base.
So in this case MDD race Frank and then I'm displaying the map again.
You can see the output right here on this line.
Frank is gone.
Frank was here was 28 and now it's gone.
And then we can call the count methods here just to see how those ront I'm displaying the count for
Joe.
How many times does Joe appear in the map.
Well it's either there or it's not there.
In this case Joe is there.
So we're getting back a one and Frank is no longer there because I just the lead of Frank right here.
So I should get back to zero and that's exactly what I get back right here.
And then what we can do is we can call the find method.
Remember this is the find method for the math class not these the find method and the algorithms library.
So I want to find that Larry in this map.
I'm going to get back an iterator that iterator is an iterator not to Larry not to.
There is value which is three but to this stood pair.
So if I get back an iterator and I'm not at the end then I've got a pair so I can access the first element
in the pair and the second element in the pair makes sense the first element is the key.
The second element is the value.
So this right here will display Larry this right here will display three.
And that's what's happening right here found Larry 3.
Then of course we're clearing the map and displaying the map.
And now we've got an empty map right here.
So go through these slowly you can play them with your own you can modify this and learn from it.
Let's take a look at test two and we're here in test.
You can see the output actually me scrolling up as well.
Perfect.
You can see that test to output is right over here on the right and the console.
Now this one's a little bit more complicated so let's go through this slowly.
I've got a map.
It's called grades and it's a map of string is the key and the value is a set of integers.
So in this case grade's is a map.
The key is a string and the value is a set of integers.
So I can have values in there like.
Frank is the key and I could have a set of integers 10 20 30 that say make sense.
So this is pretty cool.
So in this case let's say that I'm trying to model the top three grades that Frank got this semester.
Number we can't have duplicates in here so we're just having three grades.
So what we're doing is we're saying the key is Frank right.
That way I can identify that that key value pair once I have that I can get the value part of it.
It's a set of integers and then I can process a set of integers.
So that's what we're doing here right.
So let's go through this again.
Here is Key value.
Here's the key here's the key here's the key.
There's the value it's a set of two integers.
Here's a set of one integer.
Here's a set of three integers and then what I'm doing is I'm just displaying grades and I'll show you
how that display function works in a minute.
But you can see I'm displaying grades right here and it's sorting ordering rather by the key which is
a string.
So Curly 80 90 100.
There it is Larry.
90 100 and Mo 94.
Now suppose I want to insert ninety five into that set of integers for Larry I can get Larry right here.
That's when I return a reference to that element and I can insert 95 into it's value.
Well remember it's value is a set.
So I'm actually inserting 95 into that set of integers.
So now you can see that Larry originally was 190.
Now Larry is 90 95 and 100 right here right.
So I just added that 95 right in here.
And remember that set of integers is ordered as well so we get that benefit as well.
So we've got the map as ordered and the set within the map is ordered as well.
So my last example here is let's say that we want to find mo.
So let's look for Moe.
We're going to get back an iterator right if that iterator is not at the end.
Then I found Mo Mo is in there I know he's in there he's right over here.
So now what I want to do is using the iterator I want to access the second attribute right remember
the first is the key.
Ever.
I know what the key is it's Mo what I want is the second attribute which is the set of integers and
I want to insert a thousand in there.
So it's similar to this example right here.
Except that in this case we're using an iterator somewhere on sort of thousand into the set of integers
associated with Mo member Mo is the key the set of integers is the value and you can see right there
is the thousand and that's from displaying the grades.
Now let me show you the display function.
There's actually two display functions.
I've got this one right here which is a template function that is displaying any two types.
This is the one that's really being called in this case.
So again in this case I might be getting my it's a map right.
It's a map of key value pairs.
The key is this guy right here.
That could be curly and the value is the set of integers associated with curly.
So that could be the set 80 90 and 100.
In this case.
So that's the information I'm getting.
What I have to do is display it out nicely like this.
So the first thing I'm doing I'm just displaying that little the left bracket which is this guy right
here.
Then for each element each element L.M. I called it in that map.
The first item is the key.
So that's Curly.
That's Larry.
That's moe.
And then each time I get one of those what I'm doing is here I'm iterating over the second which is
the set of integers makes sense.
So remember the outer loop here is iterating over Curly Larry Moe and then each time I have one of those
I'm iterating over their values set right here.
So that's just displaying that information nicely.
I know this may be a little confusing if you sit down and walk through it.
It'll be really clear I hope in the next video we're going to do a challenge we're going to use something
that's almost exactly like this.
We're going to use a map where the string is the key and we have a set of integers as the value.
And what we're going to do is we're going to grab words from a document and we're going to figure out
how many times they occur and then we're going to figure out how many times what lines they occur on.
So it's going to be pretty fun.
So I'll see you in the next video.